[MUSIC]
>> Jafar: So we got from event.
Now let's see write map.
Remember when you wrote map over array.
I bet you it's not so much harder
to write map over an observable.
So what's going to look like to
write map over an observable.
Well we've added for each of the
prototype, let's add map to the prototype.
Now what does map take?
Explain to me how map works again,
remind me.
What it's argument?
What's the only argument
to the map function?
Now map is on the on the array object, in
this case map is on the observable object.
What does map accept as it's one and
only one argument?
A function.
A function to apply to every item
that comes through the stream.
Remember we said that observables
are like a hot potato.
Every single item that comes through,
we're gonna translate it and
hand it off, right?
We're just gonna keep calling
call backs all the way through.
So let's write map.
So map accepts what's called
a projection function.
Which is, long story short, is just a
function that you apply to every item that
comes through, and you take the result,
and then forward that along.
So what does map return?
An array when it's on an array, but
when it's on an observable it returns?
>> Speaker 2: An observable.
>> Jafar: An observable.
So right there, we need, we know that
we need to return an observable.
>> Jafar: And when the for each
function of that observable is called,
what do we do?
Well one thing I'm gonna do, and
you guys have probably done
this in JavaScript before,
I'm gonna capture the current this object.
Who's written code like
this in JavaScript before?
A few people.
So one of the very complicated things
about JavaScript that is not intuitive
Is that functions do not execute
necessarily against the object in which
they are created but they execute
on the object on which they are on if
you call that object when they're on.
so a dot function,
when you call that function.
This will be the a object, not the object
where the function itself was created.
So when we call this inside of here,
this will be this observable.
It will not be the observable that we use,
that we called map on to
create this observable.
So we need a way, remember what happens.
We're gonna step through through
this now again with human beings.
I am the source observable and when
you call map on me, you create her and
she is the mapped observable.
And now when you call for
each on her right, call for each on her.
>> Speaker 2: For each.
>> Speaker 3: For each.
>> Jafar: I say one, and let's say
you add one to each item I give you.
On next one.
>> Speaker 3: On next two.
>> Jafar: Right.
On next to five
>> Speaker 3: On next six.
>> Jafar: On completed.
>> Speaker 3: On completed.
>> Jafar: Yeah right.
So it just keeps,
we just keep handing it off.
We just keep sending messages along.
We're going to demonstrate this right now.
So the point is when you call out for each
on her she has to call for each on me and
that's why I have to capture the this
object here because this is the mapped
observable.
>> Jafar: Right?
And when you call for
each on it, her, she has to call for
each on me, right?
So how else is she gonna hold on?
Remember the observable is the this
object inside of this function.
Is the thing that you're
calling map on right?
So we need to capture it.
So I'm going to code var self equals this.
And then as soon as you call for each
on her she's gonna call for each on me.
>> Jafar: Now, for
each takes three callbacks or an observer,
in this case we're gonna use
the three callbacks, right.
The first callback is the callback
we get when we get called with data.
So what is my responsibility
at this point, right?
She's calling for each on me, right.
And so
this is the part where I say on next one.
What's your responsibility.
Now when I say on next one,
your responsibility is to do what?
>> Speaker 3: On next to.
>> Jafar: Right,
on next to him the result of
applying the function to
what I just gave you, right?
So what does that look like?
Well here, this is him,
he's listening right?
He's listening and so
we have to call observer on next x,
but first you're going to apply
your projection function.
You're gonna call the projection function
on x before you give him the value.
>> Jafar: That's almost done.
We're almost done now.
That's all there is to it, right.
When you call for
each on her she calls for each on me,
which in this case is self, right?
I on next her information.
I'm gonna actually write this out so
it's clearer.
>> Jafar: I'm calling her on next.
And she's calling your on next.
But first she's translating it,
she's running it through the function
before she pushes it to you.
>> Speaker 4: So
does she call projection function?
>> Jafar: Yes.
She is the mapped observable and
you are the person who's calling her for
each method and
you're passing in your observer, right?
And then she is in order to give me, in
order to give you my data translated, she
has to for each over me because that's how
you get data out of an observable right.
You have to for each over it so
she for each's over me.
I'm the self here, I'm the this object.
On the observable that you called map on,
right?
That's to the left of this map.
It would be observable.map,
and then you'd create a mapped
version of that observable.
That's what we're turning at the top
level, the mapped observable.
And then when somebody for
eached over the map observable,
the mapped observable has to for
each over the source.
And I on next data, and
she on nexted to you.
She's just forwarding it
along like a hot potato.
So on next, that's all well and good,
but what happens if I say on air?
What are you going to say to him?
>> Speaker 3: Well, if there's no retry,
then I say-
>> Jafar: And
apt observables don't do any retrying,
right?
So, you forward on the air call.
>> Jafar: And what's the last possible
message that I can say to you?
>> Speaker 3: Completed.
>> Jafar: Completed.
At which point what's
the logical thing to say to him?
Yeah, because I'm not going
to send you any more data.
So obviously you're not going to
send him any more data, right?
>> Speaker 4: So can I put the observer
on subscribe or terminate or?
>> Jafar: As soon as she sends
an uncompleted message to you, yes,
it's the observable's responsibility
to technically unsubscribe and
make sure that it It cleans
up after itself, right?
Because I, well,
the interesting thing is, here,
map doesn't really need to
clean up after anything.
It's actually the source that
needs to clean up, right?
All she's doing is forwarding on messages,
right?
If she makes sure that I'm never
gonna send a message anymore, then,
by extension,
she's never send a message anymore.
And notice what I'm doing with for
each, here.
What's coming out of for each?
What's the object that's returned when
you call for each on an observable?
>> Speaker 5: Observable?
>> Jafar: Nope, not an observable.
When you call for
each on an observable what pops out?
>> Speaker 5: A range participant.
>> Jafar: Nope,
let's go back to this example.
>> Speaker 5: A subscription, no?
>> Jafar: A subscription, right.
When you call for each an observable, a
subscription object pops up because that's
your way of saying no more data please.
And so, what we're doing inside of
this map, this mapped observable,
it's kind of elegant,
because she doesn't need to create
a subscription object to hand to you.
She's actually just gonna take
the subscription object I hand to her and
hand it to you.
Right?
Because if you call dispose and
you cause me to never send
any more data to her,
well by extension she's never gonna
get any messages to send to you.
So she's just saying,
" thanks very much for that subscription.
Here you go.
Like she's handing it right to you.
And that's all there is to map.
All we need to do is take every
on next I give to you, and
forward along to him, after running
it through a projection function.
And on error and
on completed you just forward it along.
>> Jafar: Should we try filter?
>> Speaker 4: Where are we
handing that subscription off?
>> Jafar: Right here because we know,
I'm the source, right?
I'm gonna say on next one,
on next two, on next three.
As soon as you see for each,
the floodgates are open and
I'm just going to say on next,
on next, on next.
But as soon as you call for
each on me I'm gonna hand you what?
Every observable hands you what
when you call for each on it.
>> Speaker 4: The subscription.
>> Jafar: The subscription object.
Because you need some way of
saying I don't want any more data.
And so as soon as she calls for
each on me,
I'm going to hand her
my subscription object.
That's what comes back from from for
each, right?
That's why we're just returning for each,
so I had her my subscription object.
And she just turns around and
hands it right to him
Because if he disposes of my subscription
object, what does that mean?
I'm never gonna send her another message.
And what does that mean?
She's never gonna send him another
message because all she does is wait for
me to send messages and
then forwards them along.